BV Balance Mod Version 1.0.2  [Special Thanks to KGB, Xono, and all the beta testers!]

Changes: 

Molecular Spasm requires 2 less CPU Energy.

Fixes:

Repeatable Repuation Quests are now actually repeatable.  They also acutally give a decrease in reputation as advertised.
Game no longer crashes when mining etc. with Digital Armor (and a couple other items.)


-- BV Balance Mod Version 1.0 - 1.0.1


Changes:

Contingency Tool now requires 1 less Weapon, and 3 less Engine energy.  It's cooldown has been reduced to 5 turns (from 8.)
Heat Ray now has one more turn of cooldown, costs 2,000 more credits, but doesn't end your turn any more.
Paralyzation Emitter now has one more turn of cooldown and lasts one fewer turn. (CD 5 --> 6; Duration 6 --> 5)
PSI Agression Drone now functions while enemy shields are up, but its energy requirements are all up by 1. (from 4 to 5)
PSI Havoc Drone now has a reduced cooldown (from 7 to 4.) 

Fixes:

The plot quest now gives the proper amount of gold to craft a degausser.
The quest "Attunement" now lists how much the Cobalt Magnifier costs in the action text.
Fixed a getting stuck in systems bug.


-- BV Balance Mod Version 0.6i (beta) --
Changes:

[Item Changes]
Landing Rockets now are affected by Engineering Skill divided by 15, not divided by 10. (Still caps out at +10)
Critical Trajectory Processor's buff's chance of enhancing damage has been increased. (Was 35%/25%/15%, is now 50%/35%/20%)
Advanced Position Computer now lasts an additional turn (from 4 to 5 turns.)
Bola Mines now have a cooldown of 5 and start the battle with 5 turns of cooldown.
Ion Weaponry now deals disruption effects per 4 hull damage. (Used to be per 5 hull damage.)
PSI-Havoc Drone no longer ends your turn when used.

[Laser Changes]
Power Laser is now affected by the Gunnery Damage Bonus. (+1 Damage per 49 Skill)
Basic Laser is now affected by the Gunnery Damage Bonus.
Military Laser is now affected by the Gunnery Damage Bonus.
Narrow-Beam Laser has been renamed Prismatic Beam.
Mining Laser is now affected by the Gunnery Damage Bonus.
ADV Laser is now affected by the Gunnery Damage Bonus.
Vortraag Laser is now affected by the Gunnery Damage Bonus.
Trident Laser is now affected by the Gunnery Damage Bonus.
Dark Laser is now affected by the Gunnery Damage Bonus.  Dark Laser now deals 1 less base damage (from 20 + cpu/2 to 19 + cpu/2)  Since you must have 10 cpu to use it, the minimum is now 24, not 25.
Laser Blaster is now affected by the Gunnery Damage Bonus.
Molecular Blaster is now affected by the Gunnery Damage Bonus.
Modified Laser is now affected by the Gunnery Damage Bonus.
Basic Ion Laser, ADV Ion Laser, and Military Ion Laser are now all affected by the Gunnery Damage Bonus.
Ion Beam Cannon, not being a laser, is not affected by said bonus but now deals 2 additional base Ion Damage to compensate.

[Other]
The biggest rumors now yield 20 less intel (originally 500, reduced to 200, reduced again to 180.)
The repeatable quest: "Harassing: Quesada" has been added.
The repeatable quest: "Harassing: Pirates" has been added.
The repeatable quest: "Harassing: Trident" has been added.
The repeatable quest: "Harassing: MRI" has been added.
The repeatable quest: "Smuggling: MRI" has been added.
The repeatable quest: "Smuggling: Lumina" has been added.
The repeatable quest: "Smuggling: Plasmids" has been added.

Fixes:

(none I can think of)


-- BVBalance Mod Version 0.6h (beta) --  

Changes:

It is now possible to gain plans for, and craft, items new to the Balance Mod.  (Excluding the quest rewarded Psi-Items.)
Added a quest, "Libertarian"

Fixes: 

Fixed an issue with Engine bot that caused issues including Ceti CPUs having a display error (where it is sold.)
The Enforcer Turret (and others) now properly display their images.

-- BVBalance Mod Version 0.6g (beta) --

Changes:

Added a quest, "The Two Turrets"

Fixes:

Added a minimum needed credits condition to the Your Food or Your Life quest.
Fixed some first turn order determination problems (quite a few.)
Fixed Memory field typo that caused a crash when equipped to an opponent AI.
Fixed a typo in the code for Telekinetic Generator that caused a crash to desktop.
Fixed a bug with Trident Laser (when used by the AI.)



-- BVBalance Mod Version 0.6f (beta) -- 

Changes: 

Fixes:

Luminary shield now correctly caps shield generation at 75%.
Fixed a major issue with an item.
Several Item fixes.  More still need to be properly documented for me to fix them.  Thank you for your patience.
Fixed some other stuff. . .(Worst changelog, ever.)


-- BVBalance Mod Version 0.6e (beta) --

Changes:

[General]
Point Disruptor is now affected by current Gunnery, not ideal Gunnery.  So Items like Heat Ray will reduce Point Disruptor's effectiveness.
Regulon Field has been balanced.  It now has a recharge of 7 turns (from 5) and costs an additional 2,000 credits to purchase.
Laser Blaster now deals an additional point of damage.  (This is largely to make up for the loss from both Engineering repair and small ship size.)
Molecular Blaster now deals an additional 2 points of damage.  (This is largely to make up for the loss from both Engineering repair and small ship size.)
Optimal Position CPU now adds 1 fewer point of damage and lasts only 3 OR 4 turns.  (50% Chance of each but altered by high levels of Science)
Decreased the overall chance of encountering enemies by 33%. (Did not alter base chance of detection when you have contraband.)
Changed the behavior for the first turn determination when ships speeds are equal.  Details will eventually be listed in the Handbook.
Added the PSI Augmentor as an item.  It passively increases the PSI points you generate per purple match.
	This item can be found at the Degani Trader, Hydra Systems, and Ceti CPUs.



[PSI]
Increased the PSI cost of Dual-Core by 1.
Increased the PSI cost of Giga-Charge Cannon by 1.
Increased the PSI cost of Entropy Field by 1.
Increased the PSI cost of Aggression Drone by 1.
Increased the PSI cost of Havoc Drone by 2.
Increased the PSI cost of Sacrifice Cannon by 2.  (To 42. . . mostly for humor's sake.)
Decreased the PSI cost of avoiding all encounters (except against size 3 ships) Such that:
	Size 3 Ship: Avoid Costs 10 PSI
	Size 4 Ship: Avoid Costs 18 PSI
	Size 5 Ship: Avoid Costs 26 PSI
	Size 6 Ship: Avoid Costs 34 PSI
	Size 7 Ship: Avoid Costs 42 PSI
	Size 8 Ship: Avoid Costs 50 PSI
Changed the final PSI power.  It now reduces the chance of detection by enemies by an additional 20%.  This DOES affect contraband detection as well.


[AI]
Slightly Improved the AI for Basic Disruptor.
Improved the AI for EM Disruptor.
Slightly Improved the AI for Power Disruptor.
Slightly Improved the AI for Burst Disruptor.
Improved the AI for Point Disruptor.
Improved the AI for Temporal Probe.  AI will not use item when Chronotron Droid is active on player.
Improved the AI for Defense Probe.
Vastly Improved the AI for Weapon Probe.
Vastly Improved the AI for Data Probe.
Improved the AI for Mass Drive.
Improved the AI for Temporal Drive.
Improved the AI for Solar Drive.
Improved the AI for Nova Drive.
Improved the AI for Sub-Light Drive.
Vastly Improved the AI for Vampyre Drone.
Improved the AI for Temporal Field.  AI will not use item when Chronotron Droid is active on player. 
Vastly Improved the AI for Memory Field.
Slightly Improved the AI for Mining Laser.
Improved the AI for Mining Scoop.
Slightly Improved the AI for ADV Laser.
Improved the AI for Regulon Field.
Improved the AI for Telekinetic Generator.
Improved the AI for Laser Generator.
Improved the AI for Psi-Shield Generator.
Vastly Improved the AI for Data Matrix.
Vastly Improved the AI for Engine Matrix.
Improved the AI for Robotic Minelayer.
Improved the AI for Spectral Minelayer.
Improved the AI for Shielded Minelayer.
Improved the AI for Needle Missiles.
Slightly Improved the AI for Counter Missiles.
Improved the AI for Cluster Missiles.
Slightly Improved the AI for Supanova Module.
Vastly Improved the AI for Shield Multiplexor.
Improved the AI for EM Net.  AI will not use item when Chronotron Droid is active on player.
Improved the AI for Shock Net.  AI will not use item when Chronotron Droid is active on player.
Slightly Improved the AI for Adaptive Plating.
Improved the AI for Vortraag Laser.
AI will no longer use Basilisk Net when Chronotorn Droid is active on player.
Vastly Improved the AI for Vortraag Matrix.
Improved the AI for Trident Laser.
Improved the AI for A.I. Missiles.
Slightly Improved the AI for Dark Laser.
Improved the AI for Red-Eye Torpedoes.
Improved the AI for Yellowfin Torpedoes.
Improved the AI for Weapons Uplink.
Improved the AI for Engine Uplink.
Improved the AI for Photonic Transformer.
Improved the AI for Mersenne Transformer.
Improved the AI for Fireball Thruster.
Massively Improved the AI for Weapons Bot.
Massively Improved the AI for Engine Bot.
Vastly Improved the AI for Null Wave.
Vastly Improved the AI for Shock Wave.
Improved the AI for Linear Thruster.
Improved the AI for Multi-Thrusters.
Slightly Improved the AI for Doomsday Bomb.
Improved the AI for Threat Scanner.
Improved the AI for Psi-clone Missiles.
Improved the AI for Cy-Tech Assimilator.
Improved the AI for Neptune Cannon.
Improved the AI for Luminatry Shield.
Slightly Improved the AI for Quesadan Relic.
Slightly Improved the AI for Modified Laser.
Vastly Improved the AI for Zapper.
Slightly Improved the AI for Vortraag Death Ray.
Improved the AI for Elysian Pacifier.
Slightly Improved the AI for Reverse-Engineering Probe.

Fixes:

Fixed a mistake in the AI coding for Basic Laser.  (Very small mistake)
Fixed the Alphabet Item Bug for the Crafting Screen.
Fixed a crash when using Supanova Module.
Fixed the crash in Vortraag Enough.
Fixed two typos in Vortraag Enough.
Position CPUs weren't being cancelled via direct hull damage.  This has been fixed.
Fixed PSI Agression Drone and PSI Havoc Drone.  They weren't functioning properly before. (Note: They cannot kill an opponent; only weaken your enemy.)

-- Version 0.6d (beta) --

Changes:

Destabilization Field no longer requires enemy shields to be removed before it may be used.
The descriptions on Optimal and Advanced Position CPUs have been refined.
The AI will no longer use Anti-Grav Array when the battleground's gravity is already altered with its effect.
The AI will no longer use Newtonian Array when the battleground's gravity is already altered with its effect.
The AI will no longer use Mersenne Array when the battleground's gravity is already altered with its effect.
The AI will no longer use Nebula Array when the battleground is already under its effect.
The AI will no longer use Mine Array when the battleground is already under its effect.
Improved the AI for Damage Assimilator.
Improved the AI for Language Assimilator.
Slightly Improved the AI for Synaptic Assimilator.
Vastly Improved the AI for Tractor Beam.
Vastly Improved the AI for Cobalt Beam.
Vastly Improved the AI for Multiphasic Beam.
Improved the AI for Darkmatter Beam.
Improved the AI for EM Beam.
Improved the AI for Space Bomb.
Improved the AI for Mini Cluster Bomb.
Improved the AI for EM Bomb.
Improved the AI for Smart Bomb.
Improved the AI for Shield Droid.
Slightly Improved the AI for Interceptor Drone.
Vastly Improved the AI for Chronotron Droid.
Slightly Improved the AI for Guardian Droid.

Fixes:

5 Items with previously changed AI had a critical bug.  This has been fixed.  Proving Grounds and other quest/battles should work now.
Some mislabeled text in "Dual Core II" has been fixed.

-- Version 0.6c (beta) --

Changes:

The AI is less likely to use Power Laser.  This item is rather useless in most scenarios and was being overused.
The AI will no longer use Orbital Array when the player's gravity is already altered with its effect.
Improved the AI for Mine Sweeper.
Improved the AI for Targeting HUD.
Improved the AI for Destabilization Field.
Vastly Improved the AI for Weapons Matrix.
Improved the AI for Repair Bot.
Slightly improved the AI for Basic Laser.
Improved the AI for Wasp Missiles.
Slightly improved the AI for Shield Wave.
Improved the AI for Auto-Repair Scanner.
Slightly improved the AI for Reflec Armor.
Improved the AI for Narrow-Beam Laser.
Vastly Improved the AI for Platinum Transformer.
Vastly Improved the AI for A.I. Transformer.
Improved the AI for Shield Virus.
Slightly improved the AI for Landing Rockets.
Improved the AI for Targeting Node.


Fixes:

Keck shell should now be working properly.
Optimal Position and Advanced Position CPU items are now fully functional.
A text error that was crashing the game in the Vortraag Enough Quest has been fixed. (Hopefully)

-- Version 0.6 (beta) --

Changes:

"New" items have been distributed amongst the many shops in the game and are no longer all in the Erebus system.
Bonus experience for winning battles has been reduced by about 20%.
New AI has been added to the game (listed below.)
New Quests have been added to the game (listed below.)
New Items have been added to the game (listed below.)
Several Major Item Balance Issues have been addressed (listed below.)
Many small Item tweaks have been made (listed below.)
Other fixes (listed below.)

New AI:

Added better AI for Conductive Plating.
Added better AI for Basilisk Net.
Added better AI for Cluster Bomb.
Added better AI for Seeker Torpedoes.
Added better AI for Trident Missiles.
Added better AI for Data Generator.
Added better AI for Laser Blaster.
Added better AI for Shock Net.
Added better AI for Needle Drone.
Added better AI for Guardian Droid.
Added better AI for Cobalt Sensor.
Added better AI for Molecular Blaster.
AI will no longer use Minelayer items (that transform mines) when no mines of a valid type are present.

New Quests:

Dual Core (accessible after finishing Attunement.)
Hunting Vagabonds (accessible after finishing Attunement.)
Information War (accessible after finishing Hunting Vagabonds; has two reputation conditions.)
Your Food or Your Life (accessible after finishing Dual Core; has many reputation conditions.)
Vortraag Enough (accessible after finishing Information War; has a single reputation condition and a rumor requirement.)

New Items:

Added Molecular Spasm as an item that is heavily dependent on your (and your enemy's) Science attribute.
Added Hull Patch as an item that passively increases hull by 5.
Added Layered Armor as an item that passively increases hull by 15.
Added Reinforced Armor as an item that passively increases hull by 20.
Added Digital Armor as an item that passively increases hull by 20+ for size 3 & 4 ships (affected by Science Skill.)
Added Fission Armor as an item that passively increaess hull by 25+ for size 3 & 4 ships (affected by Engineer Skill.)

Major Item Balances:

Bola mines now max out at adding 8 additional mines.
Keck Shell now increases to maximum energies minus 8 points.  AI has been altered to understand this.
Luminary Shield now increases shields by 4 per gem removed but only to a maximum of 75% and will lower your shields if they started above this amount.
Darkmatter Beam now has an 8 turn cooldown and only reduces shields by 50% (all else the same.)
Environmental Degausser now does not end your turn.  The AI also has a slightly reduced chance of using it.
Narrrow-Beam Laser now deals 5 + 2 per 15 points of Gunnery and caps out at a total of 29 damage. (from 5 + 3/10Gun.)

Small Item Tweaks:

Increased the damage of all Ion Weapons by 1.
Greatly increased the Energy Requirements and Cooldown for Shield Virus.
Lowered the Energy costs of FightPath Analyzer.
Renamed Multiphase Capacitor to Multiphase Node.
Decreased the energy costs of Multiphase Node.
Renamed Targeting Implant to Targeting Node.
Decreased the energy requirement of Data Implant.
Decreased an energy requirement of Helm Jack by 1.
Renamed Duplex Capacitor to Duplex Node.
Added a PSI element to both Spectral Analyzer and Threat Analyzer.
Decreased the energy requirements of Shield Capacitor.
Increased the engine requirement of Precision Rockets.
Lowered the weapon requirement of Needle Drone.

Fixes:

Removed the * next to Ion weapons' names as there is no special documentation for those items.
Made quest "Attunement IV" actually give 20 Psi as advertised.
Made quest "Attunement IV" actually require Neutrality with Quesadans.
Changed the mechanism for adding (and advertising) Psi gained from quests.
Fixed the min_faction and max_faction functions.
Fixed the AI function on Contingency Tool (missing one line.)

Others:

Keck Tradeship now uses Burst Disruptor, not Shield Virus as it didn't meet the requirements for the latter.


Known Bugs:

Precision Rockets are dealing additional energy damage beyond what they are supposed to deal.  This has been temporarily addressed by increasing the engine requirement significantly.


-- Version 0.5 (beta) -- 

Changes:

Doubled the amount of cargo awarded from battles. (Still not much but its something.)
Remaining Ships Balanced. (Changes Listed Below)
Added passive bonuses to smaller ships (Changes Listed Below)
Added Precision Rockets as an item to benefit smaller ships.
Added Optimal Position Computer as an item to benefit smaller ships.
Added Advanced Position Computer as an item to benefit smaller ships.
Added Manual Control Chip as an item to benefit smaller ships.
Added Critical Trajectory Processor as an item to benefit smaller ships.
Added Mobility Core as an item to benefit smaller ships.
Added Density Field as an item to benefit smaller ships.
Added Impervious Shielding as an item to benefit smaller ships.
Degausser has had increased energy requirements and now has a 3 turn cooldown for balance reasons.
Ultra Degausser has had increased energy requirements and now has a 4 turnn cooldown for balance reasons.
*Note that Environmental Degausser remains unchanged.
Standard Shuttle now has 1 more Weapons Rating.
Basic, Advanced, and Military ION Lasers have been added to the game.
Also added Ion Beam Cannon to the game.
Lowered the duration of Temporal Drive by 1 Turn for balance reasons.
Added Quest chain(s) Proving Grounds and Attunement to begin to introduce Psionic Weaponry.

Passive Size Bonuses:

Using the item Flightpath Analyzer on a smaller ship yields a larger effect.
Weapons that deal damage directly to Hull have a reduced effect on smaller ships. (Blasters and Death Ray)
Armor Buffs last longer on smaller ships. ("plating")
Engine Buffs last longer on smaller ships. ("drive")
Torpedoes deal bonus damage from smaller ships.
Missiles deal more damage from smaller ships.

Ship Changes:

-- [3 Slot Ships] --
Cy-Tech Botship, costs less and has 5 more hull.
Lumina Warship costs less.
Pirate Warship costs less, has 5 more hull and 1 more CPU Rating.

-- [4 Slot Ships] --
MRI Psionic Array costs less (and thus sells for less.)
Cy-Tech Needle costs less and has 1 more Weapons Rating.
Elysian Ferry costs less, has 5 more shields, and 5 more speed.
Trident Warship costs less and has 5 more hull.

-- [6 Slot Ships] --
Jahrwoxi Homeship has 1 more CPU Rating and 1 more Engine Rating.

-- [7 Slot Ships] --
Soulless Heavy Cruiser has 5 less Speed.


Fixes:

Most effects cannot stack with themselves.  (The ones that can, it should be because it is intentional)



-- Version 0.4 (beta) -- 

Changes:

Cut the experience rewards from rumors by about 65%.
Introduced a base experience reward from winning battles.
Slightly adjusted (increased) AI likelihood of using Paralyzation Emitter.
Replaced Solar Drive on Enemy Degani Marketships with Paralyzation Emitter.
Replaced Mega Minelayer on Enemy Lumina Cruiser with Contingency Tool.
Replaced Memory Field on Enemy Lumina Cruiser with Heat Ray.
5-Slot Ships Balanced.  (Changes Listed Below)

Ship Changes:

Cytech Missile Array now costs less, and has 2 more Weapons Rating (it *is* a "missile" array, right?)
Lumina Cruiser now costs less, and has 2 more Computer Rating.
Vortraag Cruiser now costs less, has 5 more Hull, and 4 more Weapons Rating but moves 20 slower.
Degani Marketship now costs much more, has 5 less Hull, 4 less Weapons Rating, 8 less Engine Rating, and 1 less CPU.

Fixes: 

Fixed the display of the Engine Fault effect to 20%.
Fixed a coding note for FC06.  Now reads 20%.
Added a missing "ai_should_use" function for RE Probe.
Added a missing "ai_should_use" function for Contingency Tool.
Fixed a coding note for Contingency Tool.

-- Version 0.3b (beta) -- 

Changes: 

Reduced chance of Engine Leak to 20% per turn with high fuel (from 40%)
Added a display of the version number.

Fixes: 

Fixed Degausser to not crash after removing a status ailment.

-- Version 0.3 (beta) -- 

Changes:

Added "Contingency Tool" as an item to counter novae and supernovae.
Added "Reverse-Engineering Probe" as an item to counter tons of auto-repair.
Added "Angst Machine" as another item to counter tons of auto-repair.
Added "Heat Ray" as an item to expand the number of statistic reduction options.
Added "Paralyzation Emitter" as another item to expand the number of statistic reduction options.

Fixes:

Made all turn-ending items prevent an extra-turn heal (via repair.)
Fixed an incorrect display of mining bonus/repair bonus when Engineer skill is at 244.
Fixed Engineering Mining Bonus, so that it is now functional.
Rewrote Code dealing with Time Warps.  It FINALLY should work.


-- Version 0.2b (beta) --

Changes:

Made intermediate points count for Cooldown Bonus and Mine Damage Bonus.
Added a credit-based reward system for hacking leap-gates.

Fixes:

Battle Fatigue *should* no longer carry over from one battle to the next.


-- Version 0.2 (beta) --

Changes: 

Reduced the bonuses from Haggling to prevent an infinite purchase-resell-profit exploit.
Instituted a Battle Weariness factor.  The Engineer repair bonus is reduced as the battle drags on.
Made intermediate points between dependent statistics determine rounding behavior for the statistics.  (So far just Hull/Turn)


Fixes:

Shield/CPU/Weapon Drain will no longer affect stunned players.  (The effects will freeze in place.)
Hull will no longer be repaired when an item that doesn't end a turn is used.
Other fixes?


-- Version 0.1c (beta) --

Fixes: 

It is now possible to get a +5 damage bonus by putting 245 points into Gunnery.
It is now possible to get -6 keys bonus by putting 245 points into Science.
It is now possible to get a +10 repair/turn bonus by putting 245 points into Engineer.
Cooldowns will now work properly after a TimeWarp has been activated.

Other:

Set up the framework for weapons that use Psionic Energy.


-- Version 0.1b (beta) --

Fixes:

Game no longer hangs when status items are used.
TimeWarp effect actually works.
Destabilization effect now counts down when TimeWarped.  (Was supposed to earlier)
